# Scaith
Scaith has several useful contact throughout the theatre, either people he has interacted with in a personal capacity or magical.
## Contacts
- [[Ashen Beth]]: An ex proprietor for [[The Stewards of the Ether]]. She peaked Scaith’s interest after conjuring a mage hand in a bar. They had a hearty evening of mutual interest and drinking discussing all things arcane. Her knowledge extended beyond Scaith’s and held much to her chest but she appeared to have a keen interest in abjuration. They met in [[Pim]], a town in [[Aspen]], she then heading south to the holy city of [[Bonsai]].
- [[Vinny and Wilma Wind]]: When Scaith first escaped the disaster of the tower he made his way to [[The Theatre]] [[Menthria]] border. He travelled for sometime unsure if he was being hunted, knowing that the wizard under whom he had studied was a person of importance. Vinny and Wilma, a halfling couple, were the first people to see that Scaith was in need of help and offered a room under a fake name for as long as he would have liked. Their inn, named [[The Windy Hollow]] is set on a key trail over [[The Halia Mountains]]. A couple evenings into Scaith’s stay raiders attacked the inn and Scaith helped disuade them. The Winds promised a warm bed and a hearty meal if Scaith ever wanted to return, also to keep an eye out for their daughter who had travelled to [[Aspen]] sometime ago, [[Juilia Wind]].
- [[Kelly and Gyle Gragoth]]: Two half-orcs Scaith met when staying in [[Emberhill]] they could regularly be found in [[The Drafty Whistlers]] for drunken banter.
- [[Possel Witherknot]]: A human in [[Emberhill]] that Scaith had dealings with when attempting to organise the safe-deposit box for the books he had been carrying from his home town. Possel, the bank clerk seemed overlyinterested in the books and interested in wizards and the like. Eventually Possel persuaded Scaith to come for some drinks but into the evening it became apparent that Possel did not abdicate the use of magic but instead wanted to know enough about Scaith and his magic to make a report to [[The Stewards of the Ether]]. Possel left the evening downhearted when he discovered that Scaith didn’t carry any dangerous magical objects or had any exotic contacts in illegal circles.]]
- [[Penny Whittle]]: a fellow gnome Scaith met on a carriage. They got onwell. She was the daughter of a local farmer in [[Aspen]] from a farm in [[Lesserton]].

## History

Scaith has an exceptional knowledge of the history of the world. Both from reading books and from his longevity Scaith has amassed an impressive under-standings of the goings on across the world, most specifically on the history of [[Mentria]] the continent that he is initially from and [[The Theatre]] the closely connected continent.

The history of the Theatre is a messy one. [[Theatre City]] has always been astronghold in the continent but in the most ancient texts is referred to as [[Gosheen]] the rest of the land was largely barren or undocumented. There are references to tribes and barbarians that has small communities of farmers or hunters but this is a long time passed.

1200 years ago the Theatre’s Western Shelf (the landmass west of [[Theatre City]]) was first unified under the rule of a half-elf to be known by history as [[Erielle]] the Mediator. His rule was gracious and sparked the uptake of the faith of the pantheon of the forgotten realms, a pantheon which is still held sacred throughout [[The Theatre]]. Erielle the Mediator offered advances to the eastern peoples including construction and a level of water purification. Additionally this is where magic was birthed in [[The Theatre]]. With magic and civilisation over the next 200 years lead to a harmonious expansion. As the border of what was then called the [[First Empire of Ethereal Graces]] reached the [[The Halia Mountains]] unrest grew in the capital. 

1000 years ago the capitol was engulfed in flames as the unrest spilled over. The conflict was born from racism and bigotry, exacerbated by a series of poor harvests. Humans and elves slaughtered people of different descents. The period that is now referred to as [[The Kathor War]] spanned 300 years but during that time fleeing civilians crossed the [[The Halia Mountains]] and spread the word of forgotten realm pantheon.The most devoted religious figures formed the holy city of [[Bonsai]].

700 years ago [[The Kathor War]] subsided and a new emperor took the throne, [[Erethrielle]] the Appeasing was loved by the people at the time. People of ’non-normal’ decent were removed from the continent and across [[The Halia Mountains]] and beyond. The next 300 years saw incredible advances of arcane use throughout the land which was then known as the [[Empire of Grace and Form]]. The Empire of Grace and Form expanded rapidly and pioneered teleportation to the far reaches of the empire through teleportation. Many accounts seem to suggest that the majority of these innovations came directly from [[Erethrielle]] himself, an excellent mage. [[Bonsai]] refused to join the network of teleportation circles and used it’s political power to create a sanctuary for ’non-normal’ races. The [[Bonsai]] religious figures quickly became non-normals causing tension but also changing opinions East of [[The Halia Mountains]].

The reign of [[Erethrielle]] ended 400 years ago in a war later known as [[The Rehersal]]. A group of radicalised abolitionists attacked the capital in the name of the non-normals. The assault lasted 4 and a half years of warfare on a daily bases. The land still emanates with an arcane after-glow from the potency ofthe magic used. The faction that attacked, known then as [[The Ariel]], were ledby figures of immense knowledge an ingenuity. [[The Ariel]] had created novel spells and harnessed fresh sources of the arcane to push back the guard of the city. It is thought that [[The Ariel]] invented [[Chronomancy]] in the years leading to the war.

During the 4 year siege [[Erethrielle]] only left his castle once, at the end of the war. He emerged from his castle to face the battle, the guard supplies had grown thin. He was to be the mecriless hand that struck back at the rebellious faction. As he approached the battle front that encompassed the city it is said his men became emboldened by a fresh strength, his presence would have been enough to sway the tide of war. He and the leader of [[The Ariel]], [[Ullillillia Uthuell]] met on the battle field. Their arcane onslaught shook [[Eren]], reports suggest the impact of their fight were felt on [[Oathra]], across the globe. In the city the initial attacks wiped clean the lives of thousands. The closest accounts to the combat come from across the city where it is said a plume of radiant vapour could be seen rising. As the sole surviving person, [[Ullillillia Uthuell]] described the battle as growling and painful. The earliest writing from what Ullillillia said was that after hours of high level spells including several wish spells and, Meteor Swarms, Ravenous Voids, and Time Stops the mad empirer knocked his arcane focus from his hand. [[Ullillillia Uthuell|Ullillillia]]’s arcane focus is still on display in the [[Museum of Wonde]] in [[Theatre City]], known as [[The Infinite Pearl]]. 

In the early writings as the emperor prepared a final volley of spells the focus, acting without a user countered the spell and cast banishment and imprisonment in a single moment locking [[Erethrielle]] between planes. [[Ullillillia Uthuell]] eventually reversed his account of the fight stating that the focus could not be autonomous and that he managed to scramble to the focus before hastily casting both spells in a furious confusion. In the aftermath [[The Ariel]] took the city and instated the ban on [[Chronomancy]], they appointed the first [[Thespians]] and immediately encouraged non-normals to rejoin [[The Theatre]]. For a brief period of time they were known as the [[Second Empire of Ethereal Graces]] but soon that faded and 'The Theatre' remained the name.

The [[Bonsai]] establishment bolstered their claim of power and unified the states of [[The Theatre]]. Much of this is lost to history as, to avoid the rise of a similar power the history was largely expunged, place’s names were changed, states were drawn up where before there was madness and each were named after trees. The unifying of the Theatre was a strategic and meticulous process after the war and only the most simplified version of the ancient teleportation network remains. Reports and writings from the past are freely available but those that write on the subject now are often ostricised by their communities of accademics as they are feared to want a return of [[Empire of Grace and Form]]

The [[Empire of Grace and Form]] pushed to [[Places/Eren/Theatre/The Iron North/Aspen/Frostalon]] and built the stone buildings that now stand in the town. There are few reports from the humans that reached the lake nor are there reports of why they left, but the town was held for almost 200 years and despite this there is hitherto no discernible reason for the initial expanse and the expensive occupation. The leading theory was that the outpost was stationed to appease the occupants of [[Emberhill]] as a potential early warning for any invading forces. Later the settlement became a last resort for those escaping exile or execution.

[[Emberhill]] is a wealthy city, above a large caldera the city benefits from the natural heat and the exotic metals that can be mined nearby. Fortunately [[The Iron North]] largely avoided the goings on, west of the [[Halia Mountains]].

## Menthria
[[Menthria]] is a largely wooded and plains-like continent. In the ancient past the continent was inhabited by nomadic people, but were brutally slaughtered by the [[First Parethol Army]] from the south. These wars were not glorious and each battle fizzels out into time without consequence. the only battle that is remembered was [[The Fall of Pearlstone]]. [[Pearlstone]], now [[Bloodstone]] was a city like no other the brick from which it was constructed was magically enfused and it remains one of the biggest mysteries of the natural world. The natives of [[Menthria]] did not have the technology to build such a marvelous structure but one night every year the people would return to the city to enhabit the empty homes and celebrate the passing of the year. [[The Fall of Pearlstone]] tookplace that night, the city was set alight, hay and dried wood was placed along the streets prior to their arrival and during the night the entire city crumbled under the furious heat. The people of [[Mentria]] were wiped out. There were thousand of their bodies found and since then (almost 600 years ago) the whole of [[Menthria]] has been ruled by the [[Parethol Army]]

## Magic
Magic is a potent source of power and has been studied for years. Magic comes in three main forms, or ’font’, verbal somatic and runic. [[Runic Magic]] has long fallen out of use as an individual can only have a single rune active at a time and often requires concentration to maintain. The verbal and somatic fonts of magic have seen feverish study for all of known history. The source of magic is still not fully known, every individual has an innate level of magical ability. Some are inconceivable but can grow with study and dedication and others are overflowing that they can master complex magic easily. Additionally it is known that the action of magic is interplanar. Though the casting of magic is done on [[Eren]] the manifestation of that magic originates form outwith the plane. There are several academy’s throughout the world that teach magic and some places that will exert a planar force on an individual to give them a more potent arcane well to pull from but these classes and procedures are frequently very expensive. A well motivated individual can often learn magic through their own devices but obviously this is accelerated with guidance.