# Tem
Tem, through her family, her travels, and through her devotion within the church, her endless charm and charismatic wit has amassed a number of close and trustworthy contacts.
- [[Kerran Mistmane]] Kerran Mistmane, Tem’s father is a well-to-do merchant, at the age of 24 he was the first merchant to cross [[Waters#The Oathria Narrow]] and bring [[Oathria]] goods to [[Merchant's Peril-Pearl]] in [[The Theatre]]. His name precedes an agreeable deal in most merchant's lexicon. He was well known but has since taken a more managerial position in his trade empire. Gold flows through his hands like a well oiled machine and with his wealth he has supported four children in their endeavours and catorsto the expensive tastes to his elven wife.
- [[Veyde Ulleiluethe-Mistmane]]: Veyde Ulleiluethe-Mistmane is a diplomat for the [[Garrison Edge]], a region in [[Oathria]]. She travels frequently to the theatre to ease tensions between the nations. She married to cement her position in the merchant’s guilds on [[Oathria]]. She had three children and pushed them to follow very different avenues of life to cement herself across the globe. She cares deeply for her family, especially her children but there is a coldness when she speaks of her family, the horror of her husbands eventual human death and her children as constant reminders echos through her speech.
- [[Simone Mistmane]]: Simone, the eldest Mistmane child was cold to Tem growing up, with four years between them Simone had been brought up in a cold professional household and the volume and colour that Tem brought was uncomfortable as a child. Now she is the sibling Tem is in most contact with. Simone had an interest in politics like her mother and moved to [[Nectal]] to help nomadic tribes of minotaur and centaur get equal representation in the [[Senate of Oron]].
- [[Warren Mistmane]]: Warren, two years younger than Tem resembles more his father than his mother, and has a keen interest in magic and music. Not yet two years ago he received an invitation to study at [[Callethan Bard College]] in [[Menthria]]. The college is world renowned and Veyde supported this move in particular, the bard college’s alumni include some of the most influential political figures in the region. Tem and Warren’s relationship has always been strained, while she was loud and boisterous, he was quiet and studious and despite their childhood home being large, they always seemed to get in one another’s hair
- [[Kerran II Mistmane]]: Kerran II is younger then the other siblings by a much greater amount. Tem loathes her youngest brother, when Tem was young she wrestled with the cold indifference of her mother and the distant parenting from her traveling father, but Kerran II spent most of their time with their father, now he works in the house's office. Kerran II looks destined to take up the family’s trading business.
- [[Stolvan Degrav]]: Starting as a groundskeeper for the apostolopoulos Stolvan, slowly worked his way up the ranks within the chapel, attatched. His regiment of duties and prayer made him a useful person in the upkeep of the buildings and invaluable in teaching of new diciples. Stolvan took many jobs from baby sitting orphans left at the chapel to cleaning the latrine, no job was too big and no job was done without a smile. Tem quickly became infatuated with this man and they soon became close friends. Tem’s affinity for mischief kept Stolvan on his toes and while many of her misdeeds could be excused by him asking for her assistance, on the night of the incident a heavier burden had to be bore. With no children of his own Strolvan did not hesitate to take responsibility for Tem’s actions, knowing all too well what it would mean.
- [[Arch Primogen Kelp]]: Arch Primogen Kelp, Guardian of the [[OuterField]], Arbiter of Prospects and Theatrical Proprietor, is one of the most influencial religious figures currently not presiding in the Holy city of [[Bonsai]]. His reach goes beyond religious circles and is recognised as the head of many temples and churches in the [[Theatre City]]. Though [[Veyde Ulleiluethe-Mistmane]] would have her daughter trained and educated in the holy city she preferred the tutelage of the esteemed Arch Primogen himself. The life of an [[Arch Primogen]] is not without responsibilities and Tem frequently found herself far removed from the regal [[Arch Primogen Kelp]], Guardian of the Outer Field, Arbiter of Prospects and Theatrical Proprietor, instead in the care of [[Stolvan Degrav]], a local helper in the [[Apostolopoulos of Tymora's Grace and Poise]].
- [[Primogen Loss]]: Primogen Loss is a strict old man, bitter to have not raised above his current level in his career. He teaches prayer rituals and philosophical texts in the [[Apostolopoulos of Tymora's Grace and Poise]]. He is frequently the target of practical jokes by the younger students but his punishments are firm and cruel, so once you have pranked him once you never try again. Tem pranked him three times, all without being caught, she switched his sugar with salt for his morning tea for a whole month, she cut an inch off the legs of his chair at communion so he looked like a child at the table, and after one particularly strict class about moral responsibility she changed his name in the front page from Loss to Loser, which are still the ciculated textbooks. Tem avoided his classes by ’helping’ [[Stolvan Degrav]] when she could and [[Primogen Loss]] has an undeserved glowing opinion of the younghalf elf.
- [[Primogen Halt]]: Primogen Halt was the leader of the congregation in the chapel within the [[Apostolopoulos of Tymora's Grace and Poise]]. His teaching responsibilities were limited and would frequently happen across Tem in the corridors skipping class or helping [[Stolvan Degrav]] with menial tasks. Though not a punishment Halt would frequently say 'Not in class, you will be heading to the chapel then to serve?' and escort Tem to the chapel. She became a frequent face in the chapel and several locals became more comfortable discussing issues of faith with her over some of the priests. Tem learned more from the chapel and Halt’s words of wisdom than she ever would have in classes.
- [[Primogen Need]]:- Primogen Need was a weasely sort of man, a human, given Primogen status too young, perhaps to account for his shorter lifespan. Constantly struggling under the pressures of the [[Primogen]] position, Need found solace in speaking with Tem. It was 3 years before Tem realised the man she had been consoling was a [[Primogen]] in the church and their friendship became part of her duties in the church. Finally Primogen Need was recalled to the Holy City of [[Bonsai]] to serve under [[Primogen Iro]] in a more artistic position. On leaving he proposed to Tem and the pair haven’t spoken since, for no fault on Tem’s side.
- [[Svet Horeal]]: Svet was a local boy that would come in and thank [[Tymora]] for a variety of things that Tem noticed coming in and out of the chapel. She once overheard him praying speaking of good fortune for the nextweeks poker game. It wasn’t long till Tem was invited to a monthly game between men that worked at the docks for a friendly poker session.
- [[Jessica Ossenharris]]: As well as friends in the establishment of the [[Apostolopoulos of Tymora's Grace and Poise]] Tem also had friends that were fellow students. Jessica was one of those friends. Jessica and Tem came to the institute at around he same time, and though Tem’s tutor was absent she frequently got ttached to Jessica’s private lessons. The pair were very close, perhaps loser than friends at some points in their relationship. Mischief and minor alevolence made amiable miscreants out of the pair of them.
- [[Kepler Thume]]: A large tortle in the church that helped with odd jobs, ages with Jessica and Tem, Kepler would frequently find themselves in the pair’s company after hours in bars and other establishments around the city ’spreading the good word of Tymora’
- [[Goose]]:- Goose was a stray cat that lived at the [[Apostolopoulos of Tymora's Grace and Poise]], before Tem, Goose was named cat. And to annoy everyone Tem trained Goose to respond only to Goose but two weeks before the incident Goose went missing.
- [[Julia Wind]]: Julia Wind was one of the people Tem travelled with on [[Roads#The Icy Way]], a short gnome in stature and not offensively impressive Julia was an excellent conversationalist. She seemed well versed in politics and local issues from [[The Iron North]]. When the carriage went off road or was damaged during a blizzard or fight with raiders Julia was the first to reach for a shovel or a tool. She is a woman of grit and determination. Her parents own a small tavern and inn on the Oak path across the [[Halia Mountains]], where she was heading home to.
- [[Araceli Veth]]: Araceli Veth was an interesting character, or so Tem thought, her skin was perfectly perilous white but her face always seemed sullen and sad except when they were attacked. One time Araceli was on watch and the cart didn’t even stop she left the carriage to slay a pack of wolves and then ran and caught up to the cart. She guarded two large tomahawks that Tem only admired from a distance. Despite not being much of a talker, Araceli knew more about Tem than anybody had ever known about herself.
- [[Ashen Blaze]]: Ashen Blaze was a charismatic, fabulously gay fire genasi, playing a lute when the carriage was more lively, Ashen was a favourite on the trip. The group felt warmth in his peculiar combination of dance and lute, with flares of harmless pyromancy. He was heading to dance academy in [[Dogwood]], to get professional lessons having only preformed in inns and bars in [[Laddle]].
- [[Tilia Sooth]]:- Tilia Sooth, though they were diametrically opposed, Tem found comfort in the quiets around Tilia at the end of their trip. The only things that Tem ever heard from Tilia was that she was from [[The Fey Wild]], heading to the [[Theatre City]] to garner a deal. Tilia didn’t speak much about it but from the little she did, Tem knew she didn’t like teleportation circles and that the journey was urgent.
- [[Suri Harrith]]: Suri is the only person in the trip that Tem did not get along with at all, she was cold, harsh and at times threatening. Suri was not quiet like Tilia, but instead she was just about as loud as Tem but they quickly began a battle of popularity, as Tem sees it Suri attempted to turn the group against her. And Suri would say the exact opposite. At the end of their journey the group split off giving everyone their contact information and a rough plan of where they were going, Suri did not.

## Religion
[[The Theatre]] is a large continent of a large variety of independent beliefs. From outside of the theatre it may be seen that the nation is largely multi-theistic, but the beliefs of one group surrounding their god is seldom shared with another group. Instead most in [[The Theatre]] believe in a single mono-theistic god but there is a variety to whom that god is. Those who follow [[The Raven Queen]] generally do not believe in [[Tymora]] or any of the other gods, but instead believe that the other gods are miss-interpretations of [[The Raven Queen]].To accommodate the tensions created by this view point the holy city of [[Bonsai]], historically was a place for the followers of all religions to meet and contact one another peacefully. In the development of religious followings, language and dialects developed so quickly, in the city, those that could speak multiple languages were in high demand, these roles eventually became [[Arch Primogen]].

An Arch Primogen is charged with maintaining the peace between the different beliefs and prevent all out war. A [[Primogen]] is a well versed and learned member of a single church, an [[Arch Primogen]] has received a [[Primogate]] in two or more churches. As the primary goal of the churches are prevent a collapse of all out war or too much disdain within the churches, [[The Pluralism]] (multi-religious church) continues to fight over seas.

This army is named [[The Plural Inquisition]] and fights for all gods. Each church is required to procure and send an equal share of Paladins for this army, making it one of the largest military forces on the planet. If a church does not hold to their side of the deal they could lose Primogen representation as [[The Church of the Holy Mother]] did 150 years prior, a church almost entirely removed from [[The Theatre]] now. A common mono-theistic following is that of [[Tymora]]. 

The Church of Tymora believes not only that Tymora is the god of good fortune and skill but also in a deterministic universe. The idea that action leads to reaction without exception is a central tenant in Tymora’s teaching. The only being beyond this linear to and fro of action to consequence is [[Tymora]] and only she can meddle with the written hands of pre-conception. In your faith in Tymora one asks for favour where she decides to act. It is noted generally that the followers of Tymora are tranquil in their disposition, resolute that there are two outcomes. The deterministic path edits nothing and the world continues on, the out-come of the believers actions and those around them were destined to come about so there is no value in seeing this as a suffering, as there was no faulton anybody but the ever turning wheels of the universe. On the second path Tymora intervenes and improves the situation for her follower, thus a follower of Tymora sees all incidents as favour of [[Tymora]], if the outcome is good, and an unavoidable consequence of determinism if things are going poorly.

Traditionally the greatest gift to Tymora are objects of personal labour, hand-made cups, clothes or carvings. The effort imbues the object with value, so a shoddy carving that took hours by a novice is worth more than a perfect carving by an expert that was done in minutes.