# The Theatre
The Theatre is the most northern continent in the world. Made up of 61 nations states and 3 city states.  [[Theatre City]] has very little physical control over the nations beyond the peaks of [[The Halia Mountains]] so to ease any tension there are only very few universal laws within The Theatre proper.
 - No [[Chronomancy]] spell casting.
	 - [[Chronomancy]] spell casting is too powerful for individuals to learn as it could fragment and destroy the world. For this reason those found practicing chronomancy or possessing material pertaining to learning chronomancy will be taken to [[Theatre City]] for trial. If found guilty they would be surgically removed from all memory and time and then killed in the present, protecting the [[Wheel of Time]].
 - No racism or discrimination based on an individual’s origin or appearance.
	 - After [[The Empire of Menthria]] fell in The Theatre there was much upheaval and unrest as the empire had moved people across nations. The empire had taken people as soldiers from anywhere and shipped them around the world. The Theatre was so sparsely populated that after the dust had settled people’s of all creeds were scattered about in small villages and large cities all the same. To lay this to rest in the initial expansion of The Theatre the law was introduced. Since then The Theatre has become a place of refuge for people seeking to start a knew life in the expansive region and so the law continues to be enforced by local guards.
 - Anybody claiming to be one of the [[Thespians]] (leader of The Theatre) is to be arrested immediately and sent to [[Theatre City]] for trial.
	 - The Theatre is lead by six unknown figures, known only as the [[Thespians]]. The anonymity of the leaders of The Theatre allow them to observe the world as it is and not rely on the reports of their informants, like royalty.  Any person claiming to be a current Thespian will be trialed for treason and punished publicly so to not dilute the image of the [[Thespians]]